---
title: Additional Terms of Use for the Einstein for Developers Extension
lang: en
---

The Salesforce Extensions for Visual Studio Code include a set of extensions built using Salesforce’s LLM Gateway and CodeGen global model (the “Einstein for Developers Extensions”). The Einstein for Developers Extensions provide generative AI capabilities directly within your standard Salesforce IDE tooling and include, but are not limited to, the following use cases:

- Code Auto-Completion - Intelligent inline code suggestions; and
- Code Generation from Natural Language - Ability to describe code logic or objectives in plain English and generate a piece of code using AI.

Use of the Einstein for Developers Extensions is subject to the following additional terms:

1. “Submitted Code” is defined as (a) prompts submitted to the Einstein for Developers Extensions, (b) response code generated by the Einstein for Developers Extensions, and (c) feedback and associated code within your project that are used to provide additional context to the model (i.e., grounding).

2. Salesforce will use Submitted Code to develop and train the CodeGen global model, and you are granting Salesforce a license to use Submitted Code for such purposes.

3. You will retain ownership of your Submitted Code, and Salesforce will retain sole ownership of the Einstein for Developers Extensions, LLM Gateway, and CodeGen global model.

4. The Einstein for Developers Extensions may generate output that resembles code used to train the model. For the avoidance of doubt, neither you nor Salesforce will own output generated for parties other than themselves.

5. Submitted Code will not be shared with any parties other than Salesforce.

6. **No Warranty**. THE EINSTEIN FOR DEVELOPERS EXTENSIONS ARE PROVIDED “AS-IS,” EXCLUSIVE OF ANY WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHERWISE. SALESFORCE DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. The Einstein for Developers Extensions and/or generated code may contain bugs or errors, and their use is at your sole risk. You acknowledge that Salesforce may discontinue the Einstein for Developers Extensions at any time in its sole discretion, and may never make them generally available.

7. **No Damages**. IN NO EVENT SHALL SALESFORCE HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR DAMAGES BASED ON LOST PROFITS, DATA, OR USE, HOWEVER CAUSED AND, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR UNDER ANY OTHER THEORY OF LIABILITY, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

_Last Updated: June 2023 _
