---
title: Einstein For Developers (Beta)
lang: en
---

## Overview

Use Einstein for Developers, an AI-powered developer tool to enhance developer productivity by quickly generating code suggestions using natural language instructions. Einstein for Developers is available as an easy-to-install VS Code extension built using CodeGen, Salesforce’s secure, custom AI model. The extension is available in the [VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/vscode) and [Open VSX](https://open-vsx.org/) marketplaces.

Einstein for Developers assists you throughout the Salesforce development process with expertise learned from anonymized code patterns. Our suite of AI-powered developer tools increases productivity and provides helpful assistance for complex coding tasks. We enforce development best practices with code generation and our suite of recommended static analysis and security scanning tools. With boilerplate code generation to work off, AI-assisted tooling also makes it easier for new developers to onboard to the Salesforce Platform.

**Important**: This feature is a Beta Service. A customer may opt to try such Beta Service in its sole discretion. Any use of the Beta Service is subject to the applicable Beta Services Terms provided at [Agreements and Terms](https://www.salesforce.com/company/legal/agreements/).

## Current Capabilities

This release of Einstein for Developers focuses on boilerplate Apex code generation from natural language prompts. This feature, used along with IntelliSense, makes Apex development tooling in Visual Studio Code even richer. Familiarity with Visual Studio Code is assumed.

You can use the extension to:

- Generate boilerplate code from natural language instructions, in a side bar. Work with the tool side by side without any interruptions to your workflow.
- Get code suggestions within an existing Apex class, trigger, or anonymous Apex file. The `Einstein: Generate Code` command in the VS Code Command Palette, lets you enter in a prompt describing what you'd like to build and then generates code suggestions within your editor.

**Note**: This tool uses generative AI, which can produce inaccurate or harmful responses. Additionally, it’s important to be aware that the output generated by AI is often nondeterministic. Before using the generated output, review it for accuracy and safety. You assume responsibility for how the outcomes of Einstein are applied to your organization.

## About Trusted Generative AI at Salesforce

Salesforce’s Einstein solutions are designed, developed, and delivered based on five principles for trusted generative AI.

**Accuracy**: We prioritize accuracy, precision, and recall in our models, and we back our model outputs up with explanations and sources whenever possible. We recommend that a human check model output before sharing with end users.

**Safety:** We work to mitigate bias, toxicity, and harmful outputs in our models using industry-leading techniques. We protect the privacy of personally identifiable information (PII) in our data by adding guardrails around this data.

**Honesty:** We ensure that the data we use in our models respects data provenance and that we have consent to use the data.

**Empowerment:** Whenever possible, we design models to include human involvement as part of the workflow.

**Sustainability:** We strive to build right-sized models that prioritize accuracy and to reduce our carbon footprint.

Learn more at [Salesforce AI Research: Trusted AI](https://www.salesforceairesearch.com/trusted-ai).

## About the CodeGen Model

CodeGen is a powerful language model capable of generating text and code. The release of CodeGen 1.0 as an open-source project in 2022 could generate code in six different programming languages. Since then, the CodeGen model, integrated into Einstein for Developers and Einstein Flow, has been retrained and fine-tuned to address specific Salesforce use cases, including Apex and LWC. This refinement significantly enhances the model’s ability to customize and tailor Salesforce solutions.
