---
title: Troubleshooting Common Issues
---

Here’s some information on how to get past roadblocks that you might encounter while using Salesforce Extensions for VS Code.

## SFDX Commands Aren’t Available

If you don’t see any SFDX commands in the command palette, make sure that you’re working on a Salesforce DX project and that you have the latest version of Salesforce CLI.

1. Make sure that the root directory you have open in VS Code contains an `sfdx-project.json` file. If you haven’t set up a Salesforce DX project, check out [Project Setup](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_workspace_setup.htm) in the _Salesforce DX Developer Guide_.
2. [Update Salesforce CLI](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_setup.meta/sfdx_setup/sfdx_setup_update_cli.htm), as described in the _Salesforce DX Setup Guide_.

## Set Your Java Version

See: [Java Configuration](getting-started/java-setup)

## Set Salesforce CLI Path (Windows)

See [Installing the Salesforce CLI](https://developer.salesforce.com/tools/sfdxcli). If after installing the cli you see the error 'Salesforce CLI is not installed', this likely means that the Salesforce CLI was not added to your path. Follow these steps for verifying and adding the Salesforce CLI to your Windows path variable.

1. From your [Windows Search](../images/troubleshooting_set_cli_path.1.png) look for `Edit the system environment variables`.
1. From [System Properties](../images/troubleshooting_set_cli_path.2.png) click `Environment Variables`.
1. Double click on [Path](../images/troubleshooting_set_cli_path.3.png) under `User Variables`.
1. Verify [Salesforce CLI](../images/troubleshooting_set_cli_path.4.png) is listed as an entry.
1. If the Salesforce CLI is not listed as an entry, add it by clicking the `New` button and pasting the path `C:\Program Files\Salesforce CLI\bin` (adjust this path if you installed the cli into a different directory).
1. Click the `OK` button.

## Monitor Apex Language Server Output

The Apex Language Server is an implementation of the [Language Server Protocol](https://github.com/Microsoft/language-server-protocol) 3.0 specification. The Language Server Protocol allows a tool (in this case, VS Code) to communicate with a language smartness provider (the server). VS Code uses the Apex Language Server to show outlines of Apex classes and triggers, code-completion suggestions, and syntactic errors. To see all diagnostic information from the Apex Language Server, select **View** > **Output**, then choose **Apex Language Server** from the dropdown menu. The diagnostic information gives you insights into the progress of the language server and shows the problems encountered.

## Activate the Apex Language Server

If the Apex features aren’t available, activate the Apex Language Server. In the VS Code menu bar, select **View** > **Output** and select **Apex Language Server** from the drop-down list on the right. If you don't see an "Apex Language Server" entry, the language server didn’t activate.

If the Apex Language Server didn’t activate, ensure that you've:

1. Opened a Salesforce DX project that has a valid `sfdx-project.json` file.
1. Opened the Salesforce DX project as a top-level folder.
1. Installed Java 8 or Java 11; you’ll see a warning if neither version is installed.

If you’ve checked all of the above and nothing is working, check for errors in VS Code itself. In the VS Code menu bar, select **Help** > **Toggle Developer Tools**, click **Console**, and search for relevant messages.

## See Debugger Errors

To see errors generated by the debuggers, add `"trace": "all"` in your `launch.json` file. Then, re-run your scenario to view debugger log lines in VS Code’s Debug Console.

## Improve Deployment Times for Apex Code

If your deployment times for Apex code are slow, your org might have the `CompileOnDeploy` preference set to `true`. For details about this preference, see [Deploying Apex](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.apexcode.meta/apexcode/apex_deploying.htm) in the _Apex Developer Guide_.

## Other Resources

For Apex Debugger troubleshooting information, see [Apex Interactive Debugger](../apex/interactive-debugger).

For general information about VS Code, see the [Visual Studio Code docs](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs).

For troubleshooting information for Salesforce CLI, which powers much of the functionality in Salesforce Extensions for VS Code, see [Troubleshoot Salesforce DX](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_troubleshoot.htm) in the _Salesforce DX Developer Guide_.
